---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-01-21T05:09:46.616Z'
dateModified: '2016-01-21T05:09:24.257Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-01-21-89f6af94-fdee-40ed-b6fc-22b3fc440fc6.md
published: true
url: 89f6af94-fdee-40ed-b6fc-22b3fc440fc6/index.html
_type: Article

---
My grandmother passed on today. I'm not very practiced at grieving, but I'm working on it. I feel more alone than usual, and I hate that I never brought home "my own family" for my grandmother to meet. Certainly there is a dark force at work when the passing of such a wonderful, loving person is twisting me into shame and isolation. Fuck that. 

I will celebrate her life. She was normal on paper and steadfast, even old-fashioned in her faith and deep-rooted sensibility. She was deeply loved by her husband (one of my heroes) and they built 60+ years of healthy marriage, also extraordinary. I mourned her passing in part when she had a serious stroke many years ago. This time, I mourn for the hero who lost his lifelong true love today. I grieve with joy. 

There was no greater joy in my childhood than visiting her and feeling her first hug to after the 4 hour roadtrip to South Georgia. Her phone number was the first one I memorized, and now it's one of the only that I still remember. Back when long distance calls were extortionally priced,  I was given full access to call her whenever I wanted. That promise (along with unlimited popsicles) was the ultimate currency for my parents to buy their freedom when I was just old enough to be left at home alone, but still quite terrified of an empty house. I'm still terrified of being alone sometimes, perhaps I should go buy some popsicles since granny is dead. .. wow, gallows humor. didn't see that coming. 

The upside is that first and foremost, she is free from a worn out and failing body. She is free at last. Secondly, Yosemite Valley is my favorite place on earth and my hero and grandfather, Wayne Stewart, has never seen it. This evening as he was sitting alone in his bed, we talked for a while and he promised he would see Yosemite with me when the snow melts this year.